---
description: >-
  Club Cancer has reached Canada! I am so thankful for Mariana Monzon wanting to
  be a part of this project. A Spokeskid for the Sunshine Kids Foundation, and a
  beautiful soul, I am so excited for this edition of The Survivor Dialogues! So
  before I talk to much, here it is!
dateModified: '2016-08-08T03:24:15.715Z'
datePublished: '2016-08-08T03:24:16.210Z'
title: 'The Survivor Dialogues: Mariana Monzon'
author: []
publisher: {}
via: {}
starred: false
sourcePath: _posts/2016-08-08-the-survivor-dialogues-mariana-monzon.md
inFeed: true
hasPage: false
inNav: false
_type: MediaObject

---
# The Survivor Dialogues: Mariana Monzon

Club Cancer has reached Canada! I am so thankful for Mariana Monzon wanting to be a part of this project. A Spokeskid for the Sunshine Kids Foundation, and a beautiful soul, I am so excited for this edition of The Survivor Dialogues! So before I talk to much, here it is!

Patrick: Hey Mariana, I'm so glad you reached out to be a part of this project. Thank you for participating and let's just jump right into it.

Mariana: Thank you Patrick! This project is definitely something out of the ordinary, and I wanted to be a part of it when I got the chance. It is just beautiful, simple, and I have no doubt will make a huge impact in the lives of people who read these conversations. Alright, so first question.

Patrick: How old were you and how were you diagnosed with cancer? Did the diagnosis change the vision you may have had for your life beforehand? For so many teens, the diagnosis and for some time after it is such a confusing time.

Mariana: I found out I had cancer when I was fourteen years old, and was diagnosed with Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia. The way that I found out was quite odd really, it was like I was in a suspense game, left on a cliffhanger to find out what it was that was wrong with me. I'm sure everyone diagnosed with cancer found out in odd ways, but here's how mine went down. I was preparing to go to my flight on the 21st of December 2009 headed to Mexico to see my family. My life however had other plans in mind, I was sent to Sickkids hospital on the 18th to see an Oncologist. Since it was Christmas time, there weren't any doctors on the weekend, so I spent the weekend chillin at the hospital. I've never been in a hospital, so Sickkids was like Disneyland to me at the time. They had told me that I could have Mono, or Leukemia. I wasn't sure what Leukemia or Oncology meant, so I had no idea what I was going into. Although I had gotten a hint that it could be something serious, when a couple days back I had seen my dad tear up after we heard the word Oncologist. When Monday came around, I had gotten some more tests done; I got the typical bone marrow aspirate procedure. After I woke up, I was lead into a room with my main doctor, he sat me down to face him, and he gave me the news. I was still oblivious at this point, and did not think it was something serious-- the word cancer hadn't been mentioned to me just yet. All I commented was, "alright doctor. Well if you can get me fixed up real quick, give me some medicine and I'll be out of your way. I have a plane to catch." Of course his eyes went from serious to complete and utter pity. He just said "no, no Mariana, you have Leukemia. This is cancer. We need to begin treatment straight away, and this is something that requires long term treatment." Even after he told me the straight reality facts, I still didn't capture what was happening. I think it was my mind trying to protect me or something, keeping me oblivious so that I could remain calm. All I said after that was, "can you fix me?", he looked at me with a small smile and said, "I'll try my best dear." The two weeks after that are somewhat blurry, it happened so fast I really didn't get a chance to think and catch up on how I was feeling about all this. All I remember is a distant ho ho ho from Santa after my surgery.  
How long did it take for you to really grasp the idea behind what was happening to you? What were your first thoughts about cancer? (I think you responded very well to these questions in the following paragraphs )

Patrick: That is crazy they said it could be mono, or... Leukemia, that's such a contrast. You seemed so ignorant to all of the information, wow. It's so interesting to hear how much this news just didn't hit you at first. A lot of the people I've spoken with have had the experience of hearing cancer and automatically thinking death, and you just thought medicine = better. I bet that must have really made you question everything when you actually realized the severity of the whole experience. I feel like it all happens so fast initially after the diagnosis. You begin as an inpatient, stay and then all of a sudden surgery, medicine, and pain become a normal part of life with a second of warning.  
I know for myself, the first few days were very surreal. There was sort of a honey moon phase where I had friends and family there every hour of the first few days, and as school and work and other things were their priorities I quickly realized this fight would be for the most part, alone

Mariana: You said you realized that the fight would be for the most part alone, because people were busy with their day to day lives. I can relate to my friends in that sense, they did come around to see me and called to check up on me once in a while, but obviously life goes on and it gets busy. Even though I knew that this was a fight that I had to personally face, because it was my body that was being tested, the amount of emotional pain and suffering that my parents went through next to me, I could say matched my physical pain. They never left my side, they were there when I went to sleep at night and were ready for me when I woke up. I might have been going through the physical pain alone, but never once did I feel alone. I guess you can say that I find myself lucky for the amount of time my family dedicated to me daily for the next three years of ongoing treatment.

Patrick: I definitely agree that the amount of pain my parents felt amounted to, if not, surpassed the physical pain I was feeling. They were there day in and day out, and their suffering is something of unfathomable to me as I couldn't imagine having a child going through such a hard battle. What I meant by alone was that my parents and friends couldn't fight it for me, it was my fight, and no one else could do anything about it. That aspect of it was alone, and the sense that even with my parents being their every day, they could never feel or think what I was each and every day.

Mariana: Oh ok, that makes a lot of sense. I'm glad we both seem to agree that it's the parents that do suffer extreme emotional pain in these sort of circumstances. Especially when it comes to them finding out the unsuspected news that their child has gotten cancer, and that they have no power to protect them from their pain.  
This is just a side thought, but I feel like cancer or any hard circumstance in general does seem to either bring out the best or the worst within a family unit. In my case, going through cancer has tightened my families bond to a state that has made us inseparable from one another. We are four separate bodies, but I feel we act like one soul. We learned so much from each other, and have faced the cancer together. They were all exposed and affected by the length and struggle of my treatment just as much as I was. That's why I found it fitting to share my wish with them, and go on a family cruise together. Make A Wish; yet another organization that succeeds in bringing life, hope, and happiness to the wish child and wish family itself.

I have a couple of thoughts on the timing of my diagnosis. I was diagnosed with cancer in grade nine. Beginning of high school. The time where it's said to be either the best four years of your life or as it is known now, the worst four years of your life. Getting cancer at this time in my life really impacted me a lot, just for the fact that this is when a teenager goes on a search for oneself, and finds out who they are and what they believe in and so forth. Being hit with cancer half way through grade nine was rather interesting. I found out very quickly who my real friends were. I am a very open person, so I told everyone I thought I counted as my friend, that I had gotten cancer. All but one left me with empty promises of coming to visit me at the hospital and calling to see if I was alright. Many people questioned my disappearance, but my friend protected me and kept her word to keep what happened to me a secret. However, the rumors spread and people ended up knowing at school anyway. I didn't mind it really, I rather people knowing the truth about why I left; I mean, what can be worse than people believing the rumor that I left because I was pregnant right? I think that since I didn't get a chance to know everyone for who they really were and they me, when I went to school again with my wig half a year later, everyone just went on like my leaving never happened; some would wave hi and bye to me respectfully, and some walked by me like we had never met. People are people, and I learned to not expect anything from anyone. I actually liked the atmosphere at my school. I kept my distance and only spoke to the people that truly cared about me. Luckily for me, I found a treasure of a friend thanks to this, and I knew she was a keeper after all the love and attention she had given me throughout treatment and currently.

Patrick: Being diagnosed in high school as well, I know first hand how those empty promises feel. I had a core group of friends that came to visit often, whether it be in the hospital or at home, and I am forever grateful for that. School was different when I went back; being a boy there isn't many options except a hat and even that didn't cover much of what used to be hair. I tried to be as normal as possible so I was able to still talk to a lot of people, but the conversations suddenly seemed so surface level and uninteresting. Being in high school, the parties and drama surrounded me, and I tried so hard to still want to be a part of it all but I just couldn't anymore. My core group became my family, and to this day they continue to be, as well as my family through cancer. Had I not been diagnosed, I might not have ever created the strong relationships I have today.

Mariana: You made a lot of good points there, but there is one in particular that I want to touch on. Being bald is such a cliche symbol for having cancer. The moment someone is seen bald, everyone just assumes cancer. I know that nine times out of ten, girls who are bald are usually bald because they had no choice and do have cancer. However being bald isn't the problem, what bugs me is how society sees baldness in teens and adults alike. Being bald is seen as a sign for cancer right? So when people bring on their stares, they usually portray looks of pity, pain, and even awkwardness at times. But why can't people see us as people who are strong, fighters, or heroes? We are fighting for our lives, in my eyes that is a heroic task; one that should be admired and even encouraged with a hopeful smile. We shouldn't have to deal with cancer and also have to put up with unwanted stares that only make us that much more self conscious of our hairless heads and eyebrows. Every cancer patient should instead expect to receive compliments on their fight against cancer, and feel good about how they look no matter what. We are just like everyone else, the only difference is that we look a bit different and are fighting for dear life. My point is that there is no need or justice in having to welcome or deal with the shifting eyes of people who don't understand what we're going through or aren't used to uncommon or what is unknown to them. When I saw people staring at me, I personally would feel like I was being examined through a telescope or something of the kind. I wasn't being seen as the courageous and perhaps even beautiful girl that I deserved to be seen as at the time. I didn't feel too beautiful being bald and all, which is why I loved wearing hats like you did, and wigs when going out. However, the wig couldn't block all of the pity stares, they became even more intense when my nose tube decorated half of my face.  
I also wanted to touch on the subject of going along with our partying teen culture. After cancer, and even before it, I have always had strict rules for myself when it came to involving myself with the wrong crowd or just going out to parties with mostly senseless purposes. After going through cancer though, any want to do the typical teenage drinking parties was just out of the question for me. I saw life as precious and too short to do what everyone else was doing. I had bigger fish to catch in my sea of dreams; I had no intentions on adding parties, taking stupid risks, or fitting in, as one of those dreams. I realized that the best dreams usually included my family and God, nothing could make me happier and smile wider.

Patrick: I know what you mean about "bald" being a traditional symbol of cancer. All of the advertisements for children always seem to have a child that is bald, and bald means suffering. What bothers me most about it though, is the fact that no one ever seems to want to show anyone the behind the scenes footage, the reason that person is bald. I feel as though if we showed that aspect of cancer, rather than "the bald kid," we would no longer get the looks of pity, but the looks of warriors; only then would people understand the strength it took to be a survivor. It is so hard for a teenager going through cancer treatment to go to school bald, or with a wig, knowing that every person knows why you are like that, and yet still no one will step forward to let you know that you are still beautiful and this disease will never take that away from you. That aspect though, I feel brings on a strength of its own, strength in confidence. At that point, we have to reach inside of ourselves to know that we are still beautiful regardless of the stares or our insecurities. Often times, I feel, and tell people that say "you're so strong," that I was only strong because I had to be. Had I not been through these circumstances, I'm not quite sure if I would really know my true strength and how much I could endure.  
Do you wish you had never gone through this? Do you think you would have been a different person had you not gone through the cancer diagnosis? I want to know what aspects of treatment made you see things differently or, in essence, changed you as a person and the way you live.

Mariana: I could honestly say that I don't regret that cancer came into my life. This trial and experience has brought me to mature in my personal faith with Jesus, has helped me live my life with more expression, to be myself and take risks in my journey that I wouldn't necessarily have taken before cancer. As a survivor I feel like I have gotten a second chance at my life, that I could go out and discover who I am meant to be in this world and live out what I once thought were to be my impossible or unrealistic dreams. I have never felt happier about my life until I realized the strength in my soul to love others and just say yes to spontaneous adventures that will do good in my life and those around me. I think positivity is something that I acquired during cancer and is something that I continue to use on a daily basis. It was in me before cancer, but grew to be a huge aspect of my life after going through three years of treatment.  
And of course being a survivor does have its downfalls sometimes but I have been blessed with meeting such inspiring and beautiful people through these past four years of my life, but I have also had to see some of them pass away. In the cancer world, there is no guarantee that all our friends will make it through their fight with cancer. Once I got the chance to make such special bonds, I also had the risk of losing them. I'm sure you can relate Patrick, when I say that each death of a close friend burns a hole in ones heart. However, I feel like I've learned to appreciate the people that are around me now and to truly enjoy every moment I have with each and every one of them.

Patrick: I love that you look to discover who you are meant to be in this world and are going for what used to be "unrealistic" or "impossible" dreams. Dreamchasing happens to be something I take a lot of pride in and with so many of the survivors I have had the opportunity to meet it is a common theme. The way so many of us look at life is so different than the norm, and the second chance at life probably has a lot to do with that. Without the cancer diagnosis, I don't believe I would be where I am today or had the blessing of having so many beautiful people in my life, but with the good always comes the bad. I have lost so many friends from this fight and that is something I cannot stand. It burns a hole that I've been able to fill with passion and I truly believe their lives are still with me today for that reason. We have to appreciate each and every moment we have, and sometimes we have to remind ourselves to stop and take a second just to admire what's around.

Mariana: I do admire everything that you have done with your cancer experience. You have taken the hardships and even the deaths of your friends, and turned them into words of hope and words of life for those who are fighting, for those who know someone who is fighting, and for those who have long conquered the battle. It is inspiring to watch your dreams come to life through your blog. As a survivor, I want to keep the lives of my friends rooted into my own, and make their time on earth last just a while longer. Most of the friends I've lost to cancer, I imagine to have been angels who were simply passing by. I count it a privilege and an honor to have crossed paths with them.  
As a survivor, what things have made the biggest impact on your life, or what has become a really important aspect of your life that wasn't there before cancer?

Patrick: Well thank you, it means a lot to know you feel that way. I have tried to live a life in honor of those that I loved so much, and instead of letting the pain create negativity in my life, I have created passion and turned it into a positive. It has taken years of work and self-evaluations, but I feel like I am finally at a place where I can truly make an impact on the lives of others in the names of those that have touched my heart in some way. That sounded really cheesy, but I mean it. The organizations I have become involved with definitely have made the biggest impact on my own life. I am thankful to say that we have the Sunshine Kids in common. The trips they provide for teens with cancer are unmatched by anything I have ever seen or heard of. I've also been able to participate regularly with the Friends of Scott Foundation, and the prom they provide for the teens who are on or off treatment are truly unforgettable. I have found that those relationships have become a lot more important to me than a lot of the superficial things that used to play a role in my thought processes.

Mariana: I fully agree with you, the Sunshine Kids has opened up so many doors for me in my life. I got the chance to meet so many people and feel normal again during treatment. I found an unexpected strength in giving speeches and standing in front of people thanks to the opportunity of being a Spokeskid for them. A skill that before treatment had terrified me. They truly go above and beyond, and succeed in making every single teen with cancer feel special, giving them a time to breath and take a break from the ongoing visits to the hospital. The trip I took to New York with them allowed me to just enjoy life at a time where everything can feel uncertain and unreal. I am so glad that there are so many organizations out there that want to make a bright and happy change in our lives. Like you, I feel like my thought process has changed as well. I think deeply about what really matters in my life, and how I can use the time I've got and make it count.

Patrick: I'm so glad you had the same experience with SSK that I did. These foundations are an essential part of our lives and their support will forever be apart of our lives. Again, I'm so glad you wanted to be apart of this project Mariana. Having a fellow Sunshine Kid and Spokeskid participate in this means so much to me. You are amazing and always chase your unrealistic dreams; when you catch them they aren't so impossible anymore.